OSDOCS-9435: configuring router admission policy (#76317)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-nw-config-route-admission.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-nw-router.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-configuring-route-admission_{context}"]
= Configuring the route admission policy

> By default, {microshift-short} allows routes in multiple namespaces to use the same hostname. To prevent routes in different namespaces from claiming the same hostname, you can configure the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, {microshift-short} allows routes in multiple namespaces to use the same hostname. You can prevent routes from claiming the same hostname in different namespaces by configuring the route admission policy.
```

Author: done

.Prerequisites

* You created a {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file.

> * The {oc-first} is installed.

Reviewer: Suggestion to maintain the same format as other prereq and to avoid a passive voice.

> * The {oc-first} is installed.

Author: done

.Procedure

> . To prevent routes in different namespaces from claiming the same hostname, update the `namespaceOwnership` field value to `Strict` in the {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To prevent routes in different namespaces from claiming the same hostname, update the `namespaceOwnership` field value to `Strict` in the `config.yaml` file. See the following example:
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, it is required to mention the specific file here.

Author: second suggestion is accepted.

+
.Example `config.yaml` route admission policy
[source,yaml]
----

> # ....

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# ...
```
Per peer review I received on the other PR. (it's three dots)

Author: done

ingress:
  routeAdmissionPolicy:
    namespaceOwnership: Strict <1>

> # ....

Author: done

----

> <1> Valid values are `Strict` and `InterNamespaceAllowed`. Specifying `Strict` prevents routes in different namespaces from claiming the same host. If the value is deleted in a customized {microshift-short} `config.yaml`, the `InterNamespaceAllowed` value is automatically set.

Reviewer: IMO, a general flow should be: Description of a field --> valid values --> more information.

> <1> Valid values are `Strict` and `InterNamespaceAllowed`. Specifying `Strict` prevents routes in different namespaces from claiming the same host. If the value is deleted in a customized {microshift-short} `config.yaml`, the `InterNamespaceAllowed` value is automatically set.

Author: done

+
[TIP]
====

> If you complete all the configurations that you need to make in the {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file at the same time, you can minimize system restarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you complete the `config.yaml` file configuration at the same time, you can minimize system restarts.
```

Author: Yes, that is the meaning. But I am retaining this Tip as is to maintain consistency with this https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/76100 PR.

Reviewer: Would you consider rephrasing these `[TIP]` instances in a separate follow up PR (or in this PR)? Because, right now given the context of this section, the tip is not meaningful. 
User might miss this important detail if not rephrased.

Reviewer: You can maintain the consistency by rephrasing all similar occurrences of TIP.

Author: As per our discussion retaining this TIP as is.

Reviewer 2: We could do something like:
You can minimize system restarts by planning the configuration needs for your use case in advance and then by making all of the necessary changes to the {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file at the same time.

Author: making this change as per discussion with Shauna.

====

> . Restart the {microshift-short} service by running the following command:

Reviewer: Can we possibly provide a short reason why restart the service? 
```suggestion
. To apply the configuration, restart the {microshift-short} service by running the following command:
```

Author: I am retaining this Tip as is to maintain consistency with this https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/76100 PR.

Reviewer: Same comment https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/76317#discussion_r1625204882

Author: made this change. done.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-nw-router.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-configuring-route-admission_{context}"]
= Configuring the route admission policy

By default, {microshift-short} allows routes in multiple namespaces to use the same hostname. To prevent routes in different namespaces from claiming the same hostname, you can configure the value.

.Prerequisites

* You created a {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file.
* The {oc-first} is installed.

.Procedure

. To prevent routes in different namespaces from claiming the same hostname, update the `namespaceOwnership` field value to `Strict` in the {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file as shown in the following example:
+
.Example `config.yaml` route admission policy
[source,yaml]
----
# ....
ingress:
  routeAdmissionPolicy:
    namespaceOwnership: Strict <1>
# ....
----
<1> Valid values are `Strict` and `InterNamespaceAllowed`. Specifying `Strict` prevents routes in different namespaces from claiming the same host. If the value is deleted in a customized {microshift-short} `config.yaml`, the `InterNamespaceAllowed` value is automatically set.

> To enable the checks, you can update the parameter in the `ingress.routeAdmissionPolicy.namespaceOwnership` field to `Strict`. This will prevent routes in different namespaces to claim the same host.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
delete this sentence

Author: done

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-nw-router.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-configuring-route-admission_{context}"]

> = Configuring route admission policy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Configuring the route admission policy
```

Author: done

> By default, {microshift-short} prevents routes in multiple namespaces from using the same hostname. To accommodate different use cases, you can use the configuration option below to disable the `namespaceOwnership` check. This allows routes to claim different paths of the same hostname across namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, {microshift-short} allows routes in multiple namespaces to use the same hostname. To prevent routes in different namespaces from claiming the same hostname, you can configure the value. 
```
It defaults to allowing. See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/76100/files#diff-5968debd1075f10b57e348a65f0cedec425dc131c575c44f417d5ebe0a272841R76 per QE comments.

Reviewer 3: This was my bad when reading it, by default it *allows* routes. This is contrary to what OpenShift does, which defaults to Strict.

Reviewer 2: So please make all of the changes I suggested here, @aravipra.

Author: done

.Prerequisites

> * You have created a {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file.

Author: done

* The {oc-first} is installed.

.Procedure

> . Update the {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file parameter in the `ingress.routeAdmissionPolicy.namespaceOwnership` field to `InterNamespaceAllowed` as shown in the following example to disable the check:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.  To prevent routes in different namespaces from claiming the same hostname, update the `namespaceOwnership` field value to `Strict` in the {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file as shown in the following example:
```
* The _parameter_ is the "key" part of the YAML, the thing left of the colon, so in this case, `ingress.routeAdmissionPolicy.namespaceOwnership` (or just `namespaceOwnership` since we do give the stanza here). The _value_ of the field the parameter defines is what we are changing.

* We want to keep "in the following example" as the last thing before the example and move the clause earlier in the sentence. It's more user-focused and is important for accessibility (think screen readers). 

* It is worthwhile to ask @ShudiLi what happens if a user does delete the whole `routeAdmissionPolicy.namespaceOwnership` parameter. We have some funky behavior with other parameters based on whether they are deleted or left empty.

Author: updated suggestions. 
Checking with @ShudiLi

Reviewer 4: @ShaunaDiaz If the whole `routeAdmissionPolicy.namespaceOwnership` parameter is delete, the default value `InterNamespaceAllowed` will be set to `routeAdmissionPolicy.namespaceOwnership`. If there isn't the config.yaml file, all parameters are set to the default values(If there is a parameter in the config.yaml file, the default value will be set to it)

+

> .Example `config.yaml` route admission policy settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example `config.yaml` route admission policy
```
We're setting a single policy, so I think it's OK to shorten for the sake of minimalism.

Author: done

[source,yaml]
----

> #....

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# ....
```

Author: done

ingress:
  routeAdmissionPolicy:

>     namespaceOwnership: InterNamespaceAllowed <1>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    namespaceOwnership: Strict <1>
```
We're giving an example config, not the default.

Author: done

# ....
----

> <1> Default value. Allows routes to claim different paths of the same host name across namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> Valid values are `Strict` and `InterNamespaceAllowed`. Specifying `Strict` prevents routes in different namespaces from claiming the same host. If the value is deleted in a customized {microshift-short} `config.yaml`, the `InterNamespaceAllowed` value is automatically set.
```

> To enable the checks, you can update the parameter in the `ingress.routeAdmissionPolicy.namespaceOwnership` field to `Strict`.This will prevent routes in different namespaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This can be deleted. The checking is a backend/implementation behavior and I don't think it's relevant. The user side is that we're restricting or allowing access.

Reviewer 2: @pacevedom Am I right on this? WDYT? Is it important for end users to know the system behavior, or just how to configure the `namespaceOwnership` value?

> to claim the same host.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: This is continuation of the above line.

+
[TIP]
====
If you complete all the configurations that you need to make in the {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file at the same time, you can minimize system restarts.
====

. Restart the {microshift-short} service by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo systemctl restart microshift

> ----

Reviewer 2: Is there a simple Verification step we should add somewhere?

Author: @pacevedom we had discussed to omit verification. Should I add this or not? Please suggest

Reviewer 2: We removed them from the other PR. MicroShift does show the current config when it starts anyway, and we have the `show config` in nearby docs. Sorry for the noise, disregard.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-nw-router.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-configuring-route-admission_{context}"]
= Configuring route admission policy

By default, {microshift-short} prevents routes in multiple namespaces from using the same hostname. To accommodate different use cases, you can use the configuration option below to disable the `namespaceOwnership` check. This allows routes to claim different paths of the same hostname across namespaces.

.Prerequisites

* You have created a {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file.
* The {oc-first} is installed.

.Procedure

. Update the {microshift-short} `config.yaml` file parameter in the `ingress.routeAdmissionPolicy.namespaceOwnership` field to `InterNamespaceAllowed` as shown in the following example to disable the check:
+
.Example `config.yaml` route admission policy settings
[source,yaml]
----
apiServer:

>   advertiseAddress: 10.44.0.0/32

Reviewer 3: Could we lose the apiServer part?

Author: done
